---
layout: post
title: "CF 724 E Goods Transportation"
date: 2022-07-26
tags: greedy flows dp cf
---

### Problem
[problem link](https://codeforces.com/contest/724/problem/E)

You have a directed graph with a source and a sink. There is an edge between the source to each node $i$ with capacity $p_i$, there is also an edge from each node $i$ to the sink with capacity $s_i$. There is also an directed edge from each node $i$ to all $j$ such that $i < j$ with capacity $c$. Find the max flow from the source to the sink.

$$(1 \leq n \leq 10^4), (0 \leq c, s_i, p_i \leq 10^9)$$

### thoughts
$(10^4)^2 \cdot (10^4)^2$ running dinics and ac. honestly trivial

### solution
There is a nice $n^2$ sol by doing a dp to find the min cut. However, there is a much cooler $O(n \log n)$ solution. So when you split the graph, some nodes go to the source and some nodes to the sink. Lets say the nodes connected to the source are the "upper half" and the other nodes are the "bottom half". We want to enumerate the size of the upper half (exlucding the source node). So lets say the size of the top half is $0$, then the min cut would be $\sum_{i = 1}^{n} p_i$. 

Lets define $a_i$ to be the change in the min cut if node $i$ moved from the bottom half to the top half and no other elements moved.

$$
a_i = s_i - p_i + (n - i) \cdot c
$$
This is because the edge cut is now $s_i$ instead of $p_i$, and there are now $n - i$ edges with capacity $c$ that are newly formed.

So say we added in the $a_i$'s in in increasing order, and let's say adding the current element changed the size of the upper half from $S$ to $S + 1$. The initial value $a_i$ we had is not actually correct since we are not accounting for the other nodes that were moved before it. However, I claim that it is off by exactly $- S \cdot c$. All the already moved nodes to the left of it that are already moved lose an edge; all of the nodes to the right of it that are already moved are overcounted by the $(n - i) \cdot c$ estimate. So no matter which element is inserted, it would overcount by $S \cdot c$.

So we can just add in the $a_i$'s one at a time and subtract $S \cdot c$ each time. If we take the minimum cut ever made, we can just find the answer in $O(n \log n)$ time.

```cpp

ll s[MX], p[MX];

void solve(){
	priority_queue<ll> pq;
	int n = in; ll c = in;
	for(int i = 1; i<=n; i++){
		p[i] = in;
	}
	for(int i = 1; i<=n; i++){
		s[i] = in;
	}
	ll cut = 0, best = 0;
	for(int i = 1; i<=n; i++){
		cut += p[i];
		best += p[i];
		pq.push(p[i] - s[i] - 1ll*(n - i)*c);
	}
	for(int i = 0; i<n; i++){
		cut -= pq.top() + 1ll*c*i;
		best = min(best, cut);
		pq.pop();
	}
	cout << best << "\n";
}
```

[full solution link](https://codeforces.com/contest/724/submission/165816082)
