---
layout: post
title: "Teamscode 2022 Rock Paper Scissors Hard"
date: 2022-08-08
tags: fft dnq dp 
---

### Problem

A round of rock paper scissors between $n$ people works as follows. Every person picks a choice from RPS with $\frac{1}{3}$ probability. If only $1$ or only $3$ options are present, the game is a tie and they play again. Otherwise the losers step out and the winners continue playing. If there is only $1$ person, the game ends immediately. For each $i$ from $1$ to $N$, find the expected number of rounds it takes until there is $1$ winner if there are $i$ people initially. Find the answer mod some prime $P$

$2 \leq N \leq 10^5, 10^8 \leq P \leq 10^9$. 

### thoughts

this problem is set by me! Solve it for $n^2$ (the easy version) first.


### solution

I will assume you have solved the easy version before reading this. I don't know what dp formula you used, but it should have the form of

$$
f_i = c_i + b_i \cdot a_i
$$

where $a_i = \sum_{j = 1}^{i-1} {{i}\choose{j}} \cdot f_j$ and $b_i$ and $c_i$ are values only based on $i$ and independant of the dp.

The choose function is annoying to deal with, so we can expand $i \choose j$ to be $i! \cdot \frac{1}{j!} \cdot {1}{(i - j)!}$. We can multiply $b_i$ by $i!$ and redefine $a_i$:

$$
a_i = \sum_{j = 1}^{i-1} \frac{1}{(i - j)!} \cdot \frac{f_j}{j!}
$$

This looks suspiciously like convolution, in fact, it is convolution! 

The problem is that $f$ has to be evaluated in order so that the future $f$ values are correct. But this gives us a very important fact, we can compute the contribution of $f_{a \dots b}$ to $a_{c \dots d}$ where $a \leq b < c \leq d$ with a convolution. This also gives the motivation for the intended solution.

So say we wanted to solve $f_{[l, r)}$ and the contribution from $f_{[i, l)}$ to $a_{[l, r)}$ is all computed already. If $l + 1 = r$, we can set $f_i = c_i + b_i * a_i$ and return right away. Otherwise we can define $m = \frac{l + r}{2}$. We can safely solve for $f_{[l, m)}$ since the contribution from $f_{[1, l)}$ is still already computed. Now we need to also count the contribution of $f_{[l, m)}$ to $a_{[m, r)}$ before solving $f_{[m, r)}$. We know that this contribution can be computed with a convolution as stated above.

So the final solution is just to use a divide and conquer. The merge function is $O(n \log n)$ and this gives us a total complexity of $O(n \log^2 n)$. A small detail is that you need to use fft under arbitary mod to do the convolution, for that you can refer to [kactl](https://github.com/kth-competitive-programming/kactl/blob/main/content/numerical/FastFourierTransformMod.h) or [ecnerwalas](https://github.com/ecnerwala/cp-book/blob/master/src/fft.hpp) for that.