---
layout: "post"
title: "ZJOI 2022 Noodles"
date: 2022-08-09
tags: fft
---

### problem

You have an array size $n$ and an integer $x$. you have to handle $q$ queries.

```cpp
const int mod = 998244353, half = (mod + 1)/2;

void noodle(){
	for(int i = 1; i<=n/2; i++){
		b[i] = (arr[i] + arr[n-i+1]);
	}
	for(int i = 1; i<=n; i++){
		arr[i] = 1ll*(b[(i + 1)/2])*half %mod;
	}
}	

long long answer(long long k){
	for(int i = 0; i<k; i++){
		noodle();
	}
	return arr[x];
}

```

You have to implement a function of ``answer`` that is more efficient than that. Note that $x$ is constant throughout all queries.

$n \leq 2 \cdot 10^6, q \leq 5 \cdot 10^7, k \leq 10^{18}, a_i < 998244353$

$n$ is even
Due to the large number of queries, the program as a specified way of inputting queries. Also you have to hash the queries in a specified way and output one integer per testcase.


(ill write one later)

[statement](https://loj.ac/p/3709)


### observations

test 1: write a brute force
test 2: write a brute force

#### first observation:

The array turns into "clumps". For a given clump, after some amount of moves, all the values in the clump will stay the samre forever. They can still take on different values, but they will take on the same values together

test 3: For a power of 2, the clump consists of the entire array, so they all converge to be the same value after $\log n$ steps.

#### second observation:

The clumps the array forms takes the form of $2^{x +1}, 2^{x+1}, \dots, 2^{x}$ where $x$ is the smallest bit on in $n$.

test 7: there are two clumps, so we can maintain both values with a matrix ans solve in $O(q \cdot 2^3 \cdot \log k)$ 

##### Third observation:

we can stop dividing by two each time and divide by two in the end. This helps us to only maintain the sum

##### Fourth observation:

the difference cyclic difference array between two clumps is for the most part the same. In fact, each time you are applying a permutation and negating some values in this difference array.

tests $4, 5, 6, 8, 9$ use $O(nq \log k)$ to exponentiate a permutation each query and then just find $a[x]$ 


#### "Pass the Ball".

It is a model (also called cyclic convolution) to solve the following problem. 

find the sum of

$$
\sum_{i = 1}^{n} a[p^k [i]] \cdot b[i]
$$

where $a, p, b$ are fixed for some $k$

This can be done in $O(n \log n + q \sqrt n)$.

This is done by decomposing cycles, solving each cycle with fft, and combining cycles that have the same length.

This takes advantage of the fact $1 + 2 + 3 ... k \geq n$ makes $k \approx \sqrt{2n}$. ie there arre $\sqrt{n}$ unique cycle lengths

We can set $p$ to be some thing, and swapping the terms to negate it. we can set $b$ to be $\in [-1, 0, 1]$  depending on if it left of $x$ and whether or not it should be negative or not. Finally $a$ can be set to be values to make the first difference right.

I thought i'd give a better expl than what my past self wrote...

refer to this stupid piece of code

```cpp

	int block = lsb(n)*2;

	m = n/block+1;

	for(int i = 2; i<m; i+=2){
		P[i*2-1] = j++;
		P[i*2] = j++;
	}
	for(int i = m-1-(m%2); i>=1; i-=2){
		P[i*2] = j++;
		P[i*2-1] = j++;
	}

	for(int i = 1; i<=m-1; i++){
		B[2*i-1] = mod-(1ll*(m-i-1)*block%mod + 1ll*block/2%mod)%mod;
		B[2*i] = (1ll*(m-i-1)*block%mod + 1ll*block/2%mod)%mod;
		A[2*i-1] = poss[(i+m -1)%m];
		A[2*i] = poss[(i+m)%m];
	}	

	auto p1 = FFT::pass_the_ball(A, B, P);
	for(int i = 1; i<=m-1; i++){
		B[2*i-1] = mod-1;
		B[2*i] = 1;
	}
	for(int i = bx; i<m; i++){
		B[2*i-1] = 0;
		B[2*i] = 0;
	}
	auto p2 = FFT::pass_the_ball(A, B, P);
```


This gives us a working solution tests: $10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16$ by just applying "Pass the Ball"


The final observation is something that cannot be proved. Rather if you wrote out a brute force and bashed out the lengths of the cycles, you'll notice that they have a small lcm. This takes out the need to apply pass the ball, since all the cycles can be treated as the same as if they were repeated until the lcm's length.


[final code](https://loj.ac/s/1549928)

