---
layout: post
title: "CF 696 E ... Wait For it ..."
date: 2022-07-31
tags: segtree ds hld
---

### Problem

[problem link](https://codeforces.com/contest/696/problem/E)

So you are given a tree with $n$ nodes root at node $1$, and $m$ racoons live in the tree. Racoon $i$ lives in node $c_i$ and as weight of $i$ pounds initially. So between two racoons, the cooler one is the one with less weight, or if they have equal weight, the one with a who lives in the smaller node is cooler. So now there are $q$ queries:

1. Over all racoons on the path from $u$ to $v$, the top $k$ coolest racoons are called out of their houses (forever) to attend a party. If there are less than $k$ racoons, all of them are invited. Output the number of racoons that leave for the party as well which racoons left for the party.
2. All racoons living in the subtree of node $u$ gain $x$ pounds as weight.


$(1 \leq n, m, q \leq 10^5), (1 \leq x \leq 10^9)$

Note that since every racoon leaves and never comes back, it is possible to output all the queries for type one without TLE'ing.

### thoughts

easiest 3000?????? Just abuse the fact that racoons leave and never come back

### solution

So we can make the problem easier, by noticing since every racoon leaves and never comes back, we can just repeately query the path for the best until there are either no racoons left or we've invited $k$ of them.

Maintain an HLD over the tree, on each node of the segtree store a min pq for the best racoon. For the updates, [this technique](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/72626) is really useful. Im convinced it not only makes segtree have better constant factor, its also easier to code/less casework. There really isn't much else... its just an easy problem...

[source code](https://codeforces.com/contest/696/submission/166316197)

### other thoughts
i debugged a stupid ll overflow from an overflow that shouldnt even had existed. Then I fixed it so i can make an assert statement work properly... and it ac'ed. im actually stupid

