---
layout: post
title: "AMCICPC WF 2014 Metal Processing Plant"
date: 2022-07-25
tags: binsearch 2sat mst
---


### Problem

[problem link (its problem G)](https://codeforces.com/gym/101221/attachments)

You have a full weighted graph with $n$ nodes. Let the value of a subset of nodes be the maximum weight of any edge that with both endpoints in that subset. Split the graph into two disjoint subsets of nodes $A$ and $B$ such that the value of $A$ + value of $B$ is minmized.

$(1 \leq n \leq 200), (0 \leq w_i \leq 10^9)$


### thoughts
bipartite matching maybe?

### solution

Say the max value in $A$ is $x$ and the max vlaue in $B$ is $y$. Assume WLOG $x \leq y$. You can make a 2-SAT graph as so that all nodes with $a[x] = 1$ go onto one side and $a[x] = 0$ on the other. Let the edge be from $u$ to $v$ with weight $w$.

If $w > \max(x, y)$, you know that $a[x] \oplus a[y] = 1$ where $\oplus$ is bitwise xor.

Else if $x > \min(x, y)$, you know that $a[x] \lvert a[y]$ where $\lvert$ is bitwise or

Otherwise, the edge can be ignored since it can do anything

It suffices to check if a valid 2-SAT construction exists.

This takes $O(n^2)$ to check.

#### sol in $n^6$
you enumerate $x$ and enumerate $y$ and check/relax

#### sol in $n^4 \log n$
you enumerate $x$ and binsearch on $y$ 

#### sol in $n^3 \log n$
you can observe that for the most part, in any partition, an edge from the max spanning tree is present. Lets say all the edge weights on the MST are relevant. Also lets say that you color the spanning tree into black and white. The "value" of all the black nodes and the value of all the white nodes are also relevant. It can be proven that only these relevant values have to be checked as $x$. There are $O(n)$ relevant values then, and the complexity goes down to $O(n^3 \log n)$


[ac solution](https://pastebin.com/uX91S9kN)

