---
layout: "post"
title: "CF 1628 E Groceries in Meteor Town"
date: 2022-08-14
tags: kruskal mst segtree
---


### Problem

You have a tree with $N$ nodes and each edge has some weight $w_i$. The cost of a path from $u$ to $v$ is defined as the maximum weight of any edge on the **shortest path** from $u$ to $v$. Every node has a state of being on or off, initially all nodes are off. You have to support $q$ queries of the following three types

1. Change the state of all nodes with labels $[L \dots R]$ to on regardless of their previous state.
2. Change the state of all nodes with labels $[L \dots R]$ to off regardless of their previous state.
3. Given a node $x$, output the maximum cost of a path from $x$ to any node with state on.


$1 \leq N, Q \leq 3 \cdot 10^5, w_i \leq 10^9$ 


### thoughts
time to abuse kruskal tree ....


### solution
Consider a kruskal tree built over the minimum spanning tree. The answer for a given query of type $3$ is the lca of $x$ and all of the on nodes in the kruskal tree. The lca represents the largest "necessary" edge to connect all of these nodes. So it is safe to say that this edge exists in some path starting at node $x$.

With this insight, it suffices to just maintain the lca of all of the on nodes that are on. So if the updates were only point queries, it would be possible to maintain with a segment tree. 

```cpp

int pull(int a, int b){
	if(a == 0) return b;
	if(b == 0) return a;
	return tr.lca(a, b);
}
```
In my implementation a node can be $0$ when it is null. So on each leaf of the segtree we maintan a itself or a null node depending on if it is on or off. Then whenever we update, we can just walk up the segtree and keep pulling the aggregates of its children. This is an implicit way of doing deletion.

To generalize this to range updates, all we need is to precompute the lcas of all the nodes $[L \dots R]$ in the subtree of a node. We then use a lazy segtree with a tag of whether or not all the nodes in the subtree are on, whether all the nodes in the subtree are off, or whether the subtree as both on and off nodes. Whenever we apply the first type of tag, we replace the answer for that subtree with the precomputed answer. Whenever we apply the second type of tag, we can just replace the answer for that subtree with a null node. The last type of tag when applied, does nothing. 

The final complexity is $O((Q + N) \log^2 N)$ since the segtree is one log, and the lca merge is another log. It should be noted that we can take out a log by simply maintain the smallest time in and the largest time out in a subtree to take that lca instead. But that is a pain to do and lca merging is easier to understand :>


```cpp

int pull(int a, int b){
	if(a == 0) return b;
	if(b == 0) return a;
	return tr.lca(a, b);
}
void apply(int k, int v){
	if(v == -1) return ;
	if(v == 1){
		tag[k] = 1;
		st[k] = prec[k];
	}else{
		tag[k] = 0;
		st[k] = 0;
	}
}

void push(int k){
	apply(LC(k), tag[k]);
	apply(RC(k), tag[k]);
	tag[k] = -1;
}
```
```

