---
layout: post
title: "CF 1473 F Strange Set"
date: 2022-07-22
tags: flows cf
---

### problem

[problem link](https://codeforces.com/contest/1473/problem/F)

You have an two arrays of integers $a$ and $b$ who are both size $n$. You want to take some subset of integers $S$ to maximize the $\sum_{i \in S} b_i$  . However if you take $i$ in your subset, you also have to take all elements $j$ such that $j < i$ and $a_j$ divides $a_i$. 

$(1 \leq n \leq 3 \cdot 10^3), (- 10^5 \leq b_i \leq 10^5), (1 \leq a_i \leq 100)$ 

the memory limit is $32$ MB...

### thoughts
this is the maximize sum with dependencies model

### solution
For starters, it is never optimal to take an element with value $b$ of 0, since that would add extra constraints on what to take. So from now on, we can assume all values are non zero. 

So the general form of this problem is that you have a DAG with positive values and negative values. If you take a node you also have to take all the nodes beneath it in the DAG. Find the max cost possible (some values may be negative).

The key is to not view this as a max flow problem, but as a min cut problem.

So initially you take all positive values and subtract the minimal cost from it. So you split the nodes into nodes with positive values and nodes with negative values. You add an edge between the source and positive nodes with capacity equal to their weight. Then you add an edge between all negative nodes and the sink with the abs value of their weight. Finally you add an edge between all dependencies with capacity $\infty$. The min cut on this graph corrosponds to how much you overcounted by taking all the positive values. 

If an edge was cut and it had positive value, then it means it was optimal not to take it even though it was positive. If an edge was cut and it had negative value, it means it was optimal to take it even though it has negative value.


So to naively solve this problem, you can make all $n^2$ edges and run flows on it. Sadly this is MLE with the low ML. However you can note that $a$ being small is relevant. In particular you only have to make an edge between an index $i$ and the largest index $j < i$ with some value. This takes the number of edges down to $100 \cdot n$ which is enough to ac.

Note that long longs are not needed to solve this problem.

```cpp
int last[MX];
int arr[MX], b[MX];
 
int n;
 
void solve(){
	n = in;
	for(int i = 1; i<=n; i++){
		arr[i] = in;
	}
	vector<int> pos, neg;
	int ans = 0;
	for(int i = 1; i<=n; i++){
		b[i] = in;
		if(b[i] > 0){
			pos.pb(i);
			ans += b[i];
		}else if(b[i] < 0) neg.pb(i);
	}	
	dinics g(n + 2);
	int src = n+1, dest = n+2;
	for(int i = 1; i<=n; i++){
		for(int j = 1; j<=arr[i]; j++){
			if(arr[i]%j == 0){
				g.add(i, last[j], int_max);
			}
		}
		last[arr[i]] = i;
	}
	for(int x : pos){
		g.add(src, x, b[x]);
	}
	for(int x : neg){
		g.add(x, dest, -b[x]);
	}
	ans -= g.solve(src, dest);
	cout << ans << "\n";
}
```


[full submission](https://codeforces.com/contest/1473/submission/165352852)

### other things
i think it was a 20 minute solve? since i already knew the hard part already


